---
layout: post
title:  "Integration between OAE and MediaCore"
date:   2014-01-15 14:24:39
author: Nicolaas Matthijs
---
<p>It's worth checking out the <a href="http://mediacore.com/blog/new-integration-between-mediacore-and-open-academic-environment" target="_blank">blog post about the new Apereo OAE and MediaCore integration</a> that was just published. The integration brings great video support to OAE:</p>
<!--more-->
<hr /><p><br />We're excited to announce our seamless integration with the Apereo Open Academic Environment (OAE) – Available now. OAE provides a free-flowing space for collaboration and networking within and between Universities, allowing students, researchers and faculty to create knowledge, share and discuss. It is a multi-tenant and highly scalable platform that is able to support multiple institutions at the same time.</p><p>MediaCore is the platform of choice to encode, manage and playback video and audio files in OAE.</p><p><strong>Take a tour of the new MediaCore + OAE integration now</strong></p><p><iframe src="http://support.mediacore.tv/media/oae-integration-1280-x-720/embed_player?iframe=True" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" width="800" height="450"></iframe></p><p>Once the connection between MediaCore and OAE is configured, all video assets uploaded to OAE will automatically be sent to MediaCore for encoding – and will be played back in our new HTML5 video player.</p><p>MediaCore makes uploading, managing and sharing video and media simple, and we're pleased to be able to bring this simplicity to OAE. When you integrate MediaCore with OAE you can:</p><ul><li>Easily upload any type of video and audio file, up to 20GB in size, directly to your OAE platform.</li><li>Rely on fast and high quality video encoding.</li><li>Play back video in our state-of-the-art HTML5 video player, with Flash fallback.</li><li>Enjoy seamless playback on all browsers and mobile devices.</li></ul><p>Existing MediaCore and OAE users can set up their integration today by following <a href="http://support.mediacore.com/customer/portal/articles/1398180-mediacore-open-academic-environment-oae-integration" target="_blank">these simple steps</a>.</p><p>If you're already an OAE user, but don't have a MediaCore account, sign up for a <a href="http://mediacore.com/oae" target="_blank">free MediaCore for OAE account</a> today. The OAE promo account includes 25 GB of storage and bandwidth plus the ability to add 1,000 users to your site.&nbsp;</p>
